We continue to work with sounds. In this lesson, we will run sounds programmatically.
We will create sounds of shooting, death of the character and also we will play a sound when we run out of
launcher ammo. Create the first SoundQue in the character directory. We call it SCue_CharacterDeath.
Let's open it right away.
Go to the rifle directory.
Create SoundQue for rifle shooting SCue_RifleFire.
Next, we move to the launcher.
The first SoundCue will be responsible for shooting.
SCue_LauncherFire.
And we will launch the second one when we run out of cartridges. We call it SCue_LauncherNoAmmo.
We open all the assets.
Go to the ExternalContent / Sound directory. Select the Foley directory.
And we find sounds called body fall.
We will play them when the character dies. We connect through the random node.
Sound class we specify character and attenuation settings - Foley.
Let's play the sound.
The sound of a falling body is played. The next sound is the sound of a rifle firing. In the weapons directory,
AssultRifle, we find a sound called shoot. Drag and drop. The sound should be looped.
Set property Looping to true. Set the sound class weapon and attenuation settings Wep_Shoot.
The next SoundCue is LauncherFire. Go to the grenade launcher directory.
Finds multiple sounds that have the text shoot. We select them.
We connect via random.
We set the class weapon
and attenuation settings Wep_Shoot.
Let's lose.
We also forgot to check the sound of the rifle.
This sound will be played in a loop while we shoot.
And it remains to configure the last SoundQue - NoAmmo. Select dry fire sounds and connect them via random.
We expose the sound class and attenuation settings.
We are testing.
An empty sound is played. This will clearly signal to us that we have no cartridges.
All SoundQues are set up, we can go to the code.
Let's start with the sound of the character's death. In STUBaseCharacter, add a forward declaration for the USoundCue class.
We also create a property that will store a pointer to the SoundCue.
We can copy it, for example, from the base widget.
We name the property DeathSound.
Go to the .cpp file.
You also need to include the GameplayStatics and SoundCue header files.
The function that is called when the character dies is called OnDeath.
In it we will play the sound of death.
We need to play sound in space.
The GameplayStatics function that can do this is called PlaySoundAtLocation.
It takes several parameters: a pointer to the world, a pointer to a sound, and the same basic thing for us is
the coordinate in the world for sound. By playing the sound this way, attenuation settings
will be correctly applied to our sound. We pass the third parameter ActorLocation.
Go to the BaseWeapon header file.
Add SoundCue to the forward declaration. The Property for the sound will be in the base class.
But in the rifle and launcher classes, it will play a little differently, because the launcher has discrete
shots, and in the rifle we have to play the sound in a loop. We call the property FireSound.
Go to the header file of the launcher. We additionally need the sound of no ammo.
The rifle, according to our logic, has an infinite supply, so we will create this property only in the launcher class.
Add a forward declaration for SoundCue.
Go to the .cpp file. Let's copy the header files.
And let's start by playing the no-ammo sound. The IsAmmoEmpty () function
returns true when the arsenal is empty. Therefore, we can split the first condition.
And in the case when the ammunition is empty, we also need to exit the function, but in addition we will play the
sound of no ammunition. GameplayStatics also has another function called SpawnSoundAtLocation.
It practically does not differ from the PlaySoundAtLocation function. In this case, we do
n't care which one to use. The only difference is that this function returns a pointer to the AudioComponent
and, for example, if we save it, we can control this sound in the future.
Let's call this function for a change and we also need to play the sound of the shot.
You can do this at the very end of the MakeShot function. Let's use one more function. It's called SpawnSoundAttached.
You can draw a parallel between the functions for spawning special effects.
The coordinate of the sound will change in accordance with the component to which we attach this sound.
The first parameter is the sound, the second is the component to which we want to attach the sound. We indicate the weapon mesh.
The third parameter is the name of the socket. Specify the muzzle socket name - MuzzleSocketName.
And thus, all sound parameters will be calculated relative to the muzzle coordinate. It remains to make a rifle shot.
Go to the header file rifle.
Add a forward declaration for the audio component. We will need it in this class.
We will spawn the rifle sound once and turn it on or off depending on
whether the weapon is firing or not. The logic is exactly the same as we did for the muzzle special effects.
We name the component FireAudioComponent.
Add the UPROPERTY macro.
Let's rename two functions. The first one will simply be called InitFX.
And the second is SetFXActive. There will be more general names, in which we will process both special effects
and sound, and also rename the parameter to IsActive.
Also rename in the .cpp file.
And also in two places at the beginning of our class.
Add header files.
And also include the header file audio component. It's located at Components / AudioComponent.h
Let's start with the InitFX function.
If the AudioComponent is null,
then we assign it the value that the SpawnSoundAttached function returns.
I will pass the same parameters as in the launcher class.
After that, we call the SetFXActive function.
And in it, we need to either play the sound or stop it, depending on the IsActive flag.
We check at the very beginning that the FireAudioComponent pointer is not nullptr.
If so, then we can use the ternary operator.
The function of the component that plays the sound is called Play.
The function that stops the sound is called Stop.
We compile the project.
Let's put down all our sounds. We start with the PlayerCharacter class. We indicate the SoundCue of death.
We do the same in AICharacter.
Specify the RifleFire firing sound for the rifle.
And in the launcher, we indicate the sound of the absence of cartridges
and also the sound of shooting.
Temporarily disable the brain of our NPCs.
And also, let's put fewer rounds in the launcher so that we don't have to shoot the entire clip for a long time.
We start the game.
Rifle shots are played.
Due to the shooting, we will not hear the sound of the falling of the body now. Let's temporarily set the volume in the weapon class to 0.
Launch the game.
The sound is played. He's just very quiet. We'll tweak that later.